docs/docs/tools-and-integrations/overview.mdx, before:

---
id: overview
title: Tools and Integrations
description: Tracetest can be integrated and used with other tools. View an overview of all the tools and integrations Tracetest supports and tools the team is working on.
keywords:
  - tracetest
  - trace-based testing
  - observability
  - distributed tracing
  - testing
image: https://res.cloudinary.com/djwdcmwdz/image/upload/v1698686403/docs/Blog_Thumbnail_14_rsvkmo.jpg
---

Tracetest can be integrated and used with other tools. See below which integrations we are working on:


## Integrations

- [Cypress](/tools-and-integrations/cypress) is a JavaScript end-to-end testing framework. It is used for testing web applications by simulating user interactions within the browser. Cypress provides a fast, reliable, and easy-to-use testing environment for developers.

- [Keptn](/tools-and-integrations/keptn) is a powerful tool to automate the lifecycle of your application running on Kubernetes. With this integration, you can run Tracetest alongside Keptn test tasks to validate systems managed by Keptn.

- [K6](/tools-and-integrations/k6) is a powerful tool to run load tests against any type of services (REST, GRPC, GraphQL, etc). It is widely used by Developers, Site Reliability Engineers and Software Engineers in Test/QA teams to find potential issues when testing real life scenarios in both controlled environments and production.

- [Testkube](/tools-and-integrations/testkube) is a Kubernetes-native testing framework for Testers and Developers that allows you to automate the executions of your existing testing tools inside your Kubernetes cluster, removing all the complexity from your CI/CD/GitOps pipelines.

Commit message:

chore(docs): Adding Playwright docs

docs/docs/tools-and-integrations/overview.mdx, after:

---
id: overview
title: Tools and Integrations
description: Tracetest can be integrated and used with other tools. View an overview of all the tools and integrations Tracetest supports and tools the team is working on.
keywords:
  - tracetest
  - trace-based testing
  - observability
  - distributed tracing
  - testing
image: https://res.cloudinary.com/djwdcmwdz/image/upload/v1698686403/docs/Blog_Thumbnail_14_rsvkmo.jpg
---

Tracetest can be integrated and used with other tools. See below which integrations we are working on:


## Integrations

- [Cypress](/tools-and-integrations/cypress) is a JavaScript end-to-end testing framework. It is used for testing web applications by simulating user interactions within the browser. Cypress provides a fast, reliable, and easy-to-use testing environment for developers.

- [Playwright](/tools-and-integrations/playwright) is an open-source automation framework developed by Microsoft that enables cross-browser automation for web applications. It provides a set of APIs and libraries for automating interactions with web browsers such as Chrome, Firefox, and Microsoft Edge.

- [Keptn](/tools-and-integrations/keptn) is a powerful tool to automate the lifecycle of your application running on Kubernetes. With this integration, you can run Tracetest alongside Keptn test tasks to validate systems managed by Keptn.

- [K6](/tools-and-integrations/k6) is a powerful tool to run load tests against any type of services (REST, GRPC, GraphQL, etc). It is widely used by Developers, Site Reliability Engineers and Software Engineers in Test/QA teams to find potential issues when testing real life scenarios in both controlled environments and production.

- [Testkube](/tools-and-integrations/testkube) is a Kubernetes-native testing framework for Testers and Developers that allows you to automate the executions of your existing testing tools inside your Kubernetes cluster, removing all the complexity from your CI/CD/GitOps pipelines.
