docs/docs/index.mdx, before:

---
id: index
title: Welcome to Tracetest Docs! 👋
description: Tracetest allows you to quickly build integration and end-to-end tests, powered by your OpenTelemetry traces.
hide_table_of_contents: false
keywords:
  - tracetest
  - trace-based testing
  - observability
  - distributed tracing
  - testing
image: https://res.cloudinary.com/djwdcmwdz/image/upload/v1698686403/docs/Blog_Thumbnail_14_rsvkmo.jpg
breadcrumb_label: Nothing
---

import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';

Tracetest is a trace-based testing tool for building integration and end-to-end tests in minutes using your [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/getting-started/) traces. Assert against your trace data at every point of a request transaction.

```mdx-code-block
import {WelcomeGuideCardsRow} from '@site/src/components/WelcomeGuide';

<WelcomeGuideCardsRow />
```

## Why Tracetest?

You can:

- **Assert** against both the **response and trace data** at every point of a request transaction.
- **Assert** on the **timing of trace spans**.
  - Eg. A database span executes within `100ms`.
- **Wildcard assertions** across common types of activities.
  - Eg. All gRPC return codes should be `0`.
  - Eg. All database calls should happen in less than `100ms`.
- **Assert** against **side-effects** in your distributed system.
  - Eg. Message queues, async API calls, external APIs, etc.
- **Integrate** with your **existing distributed tracing solution**.
- Define multiple test triggers:
  - HTTP requests
  - gRPC requests
  - Trace IDs
  - and many more...
- Save and run tests manually and via CI build jobs.
- Verify and analyze the quality of your OpenTelemetry instrumentation to enforce rules and standards.
- Test long-running processes.
- Write detailed trace-based tests as:
  - End-to-end tests
  - Integration tests
- **Build tests in minutes**.

<div className="row">
  <div className="col col--12 margin-bottom--lg">
    <div>
      <div className="card__body">
        <p align="center">
          <b>Visually - Build tests in the Web UI</b>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div className="card__footer">
        <img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/djwdcmwdz/image/upload/v1688476657/docs/screely-1688476653521_omxe4r.png" />
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div className="col col--12 margin-bottom--lg">
    <div>
      <div className="card__body">
        <p align="center">
          <b>Programmatically - Build tests in YAML</b>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div className="card__footer">
        <CodeBlock
          language="yaml"
        >
        {`
    type: Test
    spec:
      id: Yg9sN-94g
      name: Pokeshop - Import
      description: Import a Pokemon
      trigger:
        type: http
        httpRequest:
          url: http://demo-api:8081/pokemon/import
          method: POST
          headers:
          - key: Content-Type
            value: application/json
          body: '{"id":52}'
      specs:
      - name: 'All Database Spans: Processing time is less than 100ms'
        selector: span[tracetest.span.type="database"]
        assertions:
        - attr:tracetest.span.duration < 100ms
        `}
        </CodeBlock> 
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

## Architecture

Understand how Tracetest works.

1. Trigger a test and generate a trace response.
2. Fetch traces to render and analyze them.
3. Add assertions to traces.
4. See test results.
5. Run tests as part of CI/CD pipelines.

![Marketechture](https://res.cloudinary.com/djwdcmwdz/image/upload/v1686654113/docs/tracetest-marketechture-jun12-v3_ffj2e2.png)

## Who uses Tracetest?

Our users are typically developers or QA engineers building distributed systems with microservices using back-end languages like Go, Rust, Node.js and Python.

## What makes Tracetest special?

Tracetest can be compared with Cypress or Selenium; however Tracetest is fundamentally different.

Cypress and Selenium are constrained by using the browser for testing. Tracetest bypasses this entirely by using your existing OpenTelemetry instrumentation and trace data to run tests and assertions against traces in every step of a request transaction.

Commit message:

docs(fix seo issues): fix meta tags based on semrush analysis (#3652)

docs/docs/index.mdx, after:

---
id: index
title: Welcome to Tracetest Docs! 👋
description: Tracetest is a trace-based testing tool for building integration and end-to-end tests in minutes using your OpenTelemetry traces. Assert against your trace data at every point of a request transaction.
hide_table_of_contents: false
keywords:
  - tracetest
  - trace-based testing
  - observability
  - distributed tracing
  - testing
image: https://res.cloudinary.com/djwdcmwdz/image/upload/v1698686403/docs/Blog_Thumbnail_14_rsvkmo.jpg
breadcrumb_label: Nothing
---

import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';

Tracetest is a trace-based testing tool for building integration and end-to-end tests in minutes using your [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/getting-started/) traces. Assert against your trace data at every point of a request transaction.

```mdx-code-block
import {WelcomeGuideCardsRow} from '@site/src/components/WelcomeGuide';

<WelcomeGuideCardsRow />
```

## Why Tracetest?

You can:

- **Assert** against both the **response and trace data** at every point of a request transaction.
- **Assert** on the **timing of trace spans**.
  - Eg. A database span executes within `100ms`.
- **Wildcard assertions** across common types of activities.
  - Eg. All gRPC return codes should be `0`.
  - Eg. All database calls should happen in less than `100ms`.
- **Assert** against **side-effects** in your distributed system.
  - Eg. Message queues, async API calls, external APIs, etc.
- **Integrate** with your **existing distributed tracing solution**.
- Define multiple test triggers:
  - HTTP requests
  - gRPC requests
  - Trace IDs
  - and many more...
- Save and run tests manually and via CI build jobs.
- Verify and analyze the quality of your OpenTelemetry instrumentation to enforce rules and standards.
- Test long-running processes.
- Write detailed trace-based tests as:
  - End-to-end tests
  - Integration tests
- **Build tests in minutes**.

<div className="row">
  <div className="col col--12 margin-bottom--lg">
    <div>
      <div className="card__body">
        <p align="center">
          <b>Visually - Build tests in the Web UI</b>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div className="card__footer">
        <img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/djwdcmwdz/image/upload/v1688476657/docs/screely-1688476653521_omxe4r.png" />
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div className="col col--12 margin-bottom--lg">
    <div>
      <div className="card__body">
        <p align="center">
          <b>Programmatically - Build tests in YAML</b>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div className="card__footer">
        <CodeBlock
          language="yaml"
        >
        {`
    type: Test
    spec:
      id: Yg9sN-94g
      name: Pokeshop - Import
      description: Import a Pokemon
      trigger:
        type: http
        httpRequest:
          url: http://demo-api:8081/pokemon/import
          method: POST
          headers:
          - key: Content-Type
            value: application/json
          body: '{"id":52}'
      specs:
      - name: 'All Database Spans: Processing time is less than 100ms'
        selector: span[tracetest.span.type="database"]
        assertions:
        - attr:tracetest.span.duration < 100ms
        `}
        </CodeBlock> 
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

## Architecture

Understand how Tracetest works.

1. Trigger a test and generate a trace response.
2. Fetch traces to render and analyze them.
3. Add assertions to traces.
4. See test results.
5. Run tests as part of CI/CD pipelines.

![Marketechture](https://res.cloudinary.com/djwdcmwdz/image/upload/v1686654113/docs/tracetest-marketechture-jun12-v3_ffj2e2.png)

## Who uses Tracetest?

Our users are typically developers or QA engineers building distributed systems with microservices using back-end languages like Go, Rust, Node.js and Python.

## What makes Tracetest special?

Tracetest can be compared with Cypress or Selenium; however Tracetest is fundamentally different.

Cypress and Selenium are constrained by using the browser for testing. Tracetest bypasses this entirely by using your existing OpenTelemetry instrumentation and trace data to run tests and assertions against traces in every step of a request transaction.
