docs/docs/getting-started/no-otel.mdx, before:

--- 
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

# What if I don't have OpenTelemetry installed?


import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

No worries! You can get started with no code changes at all!

This page will explain getting started with OpenTelemetry:

- Injecting auto instrumentation with **no code changes**
- Auto instrumentation with limited code changes
- Manual instrumentation with code changes

You can also find more ways to instrument OpenTelemetry in their [documentation](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/).

<Tabs groupId="otel-install-options">
  <TabItem value="no-code-changes" label="No Code Changes" default>

You can install the OpenTelemetry Operator in any existing Kubernetes environment in under 5 minutes by running the following set of commands.

### 1. Install cert-manager. This is required for the OpenTelemetry operator to work.

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager/releases/download/v1.11.0/cert-manager.yaml
```

### 2. Install the [OpenTelemetry operator](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/k8s-operator/) so that metrics will be generated and collected automatically.

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-operator/releases/latest/download/opentelemetry-operator.yaml
```

### 3. Create a file named `otel-collector.yaml` for the OpenTelemetry config.

```yaml
apiVersion: opentelemetry.io/v1alpha1
kind: Instrumentation
metadata:
name: otel-instrumentation
spec:
exporter:
    endpoint: http://otel-collector:4317
propagators:
    - tracecontext
    - baggage
    - b3

---
apiVersion: opentelemetry.io/v1alpha1
kind: OpenTelemetryCollector
metadata:
name: otel
spec:
config: |
  receivers:
    otlp:
      protocols:
        grpc:
        http:
  processors:
    batch:
        timeout: 100ms
  exporters:
    otlp/tracetest:
      endpoint: tracetest:4317
      tls:
        insecure: true
  service:
    pipelines:
        traces:
            receivers: [otlp]
            processors: [batch]
            exporters: [otlp/tracetest]
```

<details>
  <summary>
    <b>What are you doing here?</b>
  </summary>

  We configure 2 separate things:

  #### 1. The Instrumentation, which is an init-container which will run on any pod you explictly mark (see step 5).

  #### 2. The OpenTelemetry collector, which will collect the traces from the init-container and send them to the test runner.

  What's amazing here is that you can add other exporters to this config file to [send the traces to other services like these](../configuration/overview.md).

</details>

### 4. Apply the config file:

```bash
kubectl apply -f otel-collector.yaml
```

### 5. Update any service you want to instrument
  
Use the [following annotations as seen in the OpenTelemetry docs](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/k8s-operator/automatic/):

- .NET: `instrumentation.opentelemetry.io/inject-dotnet: "true"`
- Java: `instrumentation.opentelemetry.io/inject-java: "true"`
- Node.js: `instrumentation.opentelemetry.io/inject-nodejs: "true"`
- Python: `instrumentation.opentelemetry.io/inject-python: "true"`

:::note
Add an environment variable named `SERVICE_NAME` to your service so that you can
later identify it in the tests.
:::

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
name: your-service
spec:
replicas: 1
template:
  annotations:
    instrumentation.opentelemetry.io/inject-nodejs: 'true'
spec:
    containers:
      env:
        - name: SERVICE_NAME
          value: 'your-service'
```

This will automatically instrument your service with OpenTelemetry and send the metrics to the OpenTelemetry collector.

Apply the changes and you're ready! You can start writing integration and end-to-end tests with trace-based testing!

:::note
Check the [official OpenTelemetry docs](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/k8s-operator/automatic/) explaining how to use the OpenTelemetry Operator.
:::

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="auto-instrumentation" label="Auto Instrumentation" default>
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="manual-instrumentation" label="Manual Instrumentation" default>
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="other-options" label="Other Options" default>

### Odigos

[Odigos](https://docs.odigos.io/intro) is a new open source project that can do this for you without a single line of code.

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

:::tip We suggest you go back to and install Tracetest!
Jump back to the [installation guide](./installation.mdx) once you have OpenTelemetry installed.
:::

Commit message:

docs(getting-started): add auto instr tab

docs/docs/getting-started/no-otel.mdx, after:

--- 
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

# What if I don't have OpenTelemetry installed?


import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

No worries! You can get started with no code changes at all!

This page will explain getting started with OpenTelemetry:

- Injecting auto instrumentation with **no code changes**
- Auto instrumentation with limited code changes
- Manual instrumentation with code changes

You can also find more ways to instrument OpenTelemetry in their [documentation](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/).

<Tabs groupId="otel-install-options">
  <TabItem value="no-code-changes" label="No Code Changes" default>

You can install the OpenTelemetry Operator in any existing Kubernetes environment in under 5 minutes by running the following set of commands.

### 1. Install [`cert-manager`](https://cert-manager.io/). This is required for the OpenTelemetry operator to work.

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager/releases/download/v1.11.0/cert-manager.yaml
```

### 2. Install the [OpenTelemetry operator](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/k8s-operator/) so that traces will be generated and collected automatically.

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-operator/releases/latest/download/opentelemetry-operator.yaml
```

### 3. Create a file named `otel-collector.yaml` for the OpenTelemetry config.

```yaml
apiVersion: opentelemetry.io/v1alpha1
kind: Instrumentation
metadata:
name: otel-instrumentation
spec:
exporter:
    endpoint: http://otel-collector:4317
propagators:
    - tracecontext
    - baggage
    - b3

---
apiVersion: opentelemetry.io/v1alpha1
kind: OpenTelemetryCollector
metadata:
name: otel
spec:
config: |
  receivers:
    otlp:
      protocols:
        grpc:
        http:
  processors:
    batch:
        timeout: 100ms
  exporters:
    otlp/tracetest:
      endpoint: tracetest:4317
      tls:
        insecure: true
  service:
    pipelines:
        traces:
            receivers: [otlp]
            processors: [batch]
            exporters: [otlp/tracetest]
```

You configure 2 separate things:

#### 1. The Instrumentation, which is an init-container that will run on any pod you explictly mark (see step 5).

#### 2. The OpenTelemetry collector, which will collect the traces from the init-container and send them to Tracetest, and/or your trace data store.

What's amazing here is that you can add other exporters to this config file to [send the traces to other services like these](../configuration/overview.md).

### 4. Apply the config file:

```bash
kubectl apply -f otel-collector.yaml
```

### 5. Update any service you want to instrument
  
Use the [following annotations as seen in the OpenTelemetry docs](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/k8s-operator/automatic/):

- .NET: `instrumentation.opentelemetry.io/inject-dotnet: "true"`
- Java: `instrumentation.opentelemetry.io/inject-java: "true"`
- Node.js: `instrumentation.opentelemetry.io/inject-nodejs: "true"`
- Python: `instrumentation.opentelemetry.io/inject-python: "true"`

:::note
Add an environment variable named `SERVICE_NAME` to your service so that you can
later identify it in the tests.
:::

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
name: your-service
spec:
replicas: 1
template:
  annotations:
    instrumentation.opentelemetry.io/inject-nodejs: 'true'
spec:
    containers:
      env:
        - name: SERVICE_NAME
          value: 'your-service'
```

This will automatically instrument your service with OpenTelemetry and send the traces to the OpenTelemetry collector.

Apply the changes and you're ready! You can start writing integration and end-to-end tests with trace-based testing!

:::note
Check the [official OpenTelemetry docs](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/k8s-operator/automatic/) explaining how to use the OpenTelemetry Operator.
:::

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="auto-instrumentation" label="Auto Instrumentation" default>

Below we provide quick links to all key docs and samples.

| Language | Docs | GitHub |
|---|---|---|
| **C#/.NET** | https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/net/automatic/ | https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-dotnet-instrumentation/blob/v1.0.0-rc.1/docs/README.md |
| **Java**  | https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/java/automatic/ | https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation/#getting-started |
| **JavaScript** | https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/js/automatic/ | https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js#quick-start |
| **PHP** | https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/php/automatic/ | https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-php-instrumentation |
| **Python** | https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/python/automatic/ | https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-python-contrib/ |
| **Ruby** | https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/ruby/automatic/ | https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-ruby |

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="manual-instrumentation" label="Manual Instrumentation" default>
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="other-options" label="Other Options" default>

### Odigos

[Odigos](https://docs.odigos.io/intro) is a new open source project that can do this for you without a single line of code.

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

:::tip We suggest you go back to and install Tracetest!
Jump back to the [installation guide](./installation.mdx) once you have OpenTelemetry installed.
:::
