docs/docs/getting-started/overview.mdx, before:

---
id: overview
title: Getting Started with Tracetest
description: Tracetest allows you to quickly build integration and end-to-end tests, powered by your OpenTelemetry traces.
hide_table_of_contents: false
keywords:
  - tracetest
  - trace-based testing
  - observability
  - distributed tracing
  - testing
image: https://res.cloudinary.com/djwdcmwdz/image/upload/v1698686403/docs/Blog_Thumbnail_14_rsvkmo.jpg
---

Tracetest is a cloud-native application, packaged and distributed as a Docker image and designed to run in a containerized environment.

We recommend using our managed platform for [Tracetest](https://app.tracetest.io/), because it's the easiest way to build and test with OpenTelemetry. Tracetest includes features such as collaboration for teams and comes with a free tier for development.

Alternatively, you can run Tracetest Core on your own infrastructure with Docker or Kubernetes.

```mdx-code-block
import {GettingStartedGuideCardsRow} from '@site/src/components/GettingStartedGuide';

<GettingStartedGuideCardsRow />
```

Commit message:

docs(fix seo issues): fix meta tags based on semrush analysis

docs/docs/getting-started/overview.mdx, after:

---
id: overview
title: Getting Started with Tracetest
description: Get started with Tracetest, the easiest way to test complex microservice flows fast! Use OpenTelemetry distributed traces to find issues from front end to back end and anywhere in between!
hide_table_of_contents: false
keywords:
  - tracetest
  - tracetest quick start
  - tracetest get started
  - trace-based testing
  - observability
  - observability driven development
  - observability driven development quick start
  - distributed tracing
  - testing
image: https://res.cloudinary.com/djwdcmwdz/image/upload/v1698686403/docs/Blog_Thumbnail_14_rsvkmo.jpg
---

Tracetest is a cloud-native application, packaged and distributed as a Docker image and designed to run in a containerized environment.

We recommend using our managed platform for [Tracetest](https://app.tracetest.io/), because it's the easiest way to build and test with OpenTelemetry. Tracetest includes features such as collaboration for teams and comes with a free tier for development.

Alternatively, you can run Tracetest Core on your own infrastructure with Docker or Kubernetes.

```mdx-code-block
import {GettingStartedGuideCardsRow} from '@site/src/components/GettingStartedGuide';

<GettingStartedGuideCardsRow />
```
