docs/docs/core/configuration/analytics.mdx, before:

---
id: analytics
title: Analytics Settings
description: Tracetest allows you to quickly build integration and end-to-end tests, powered by your OpenTelemetry traces. Learn how to get started with creating tests once you open Tracetest.
keywords:
  - tracetest
  - trace-based testing
  - observability
  - distributed tracing
  - testing
image: https://res.cloudinary.com/djwdcmwdz/image/upload/v1689693872/docs/Blog_Thumbnail_28_ugy2yy.png
---

To improve the end user experience and to help determine where to focus team resources to improve the tool, Tracetest collects analytics and telemetry information from the system.

Participation in this program is optional, and you may opt-out by following the directions below if you'd prefer not to share any information.

The data collected is anonymous and is not traceable to the source. You can learn more about how we treat your data by [reading our privacy statement](https://kubeshop.io/privacy).

## Changing Analytics Settings from the UI

In the Tracetest Web UI, open (1) Settings and select the (2) Analytics tab:

![Analytics Settings](./img/analytics-settings-0.11.3.png)

From this analytics settings page, you can enable or disable the analytics.

## Changing Analytics Settings with the CLI

Or, if you prefer to use the CLI, you can use this file config to disable analytics:

```yaml
type: Config
spec:
  analyticsEnabled: false
```

Proceed to run this command in the terminal and specify the file above.

```bash
tracetest apply config -f my/resource/analytics-resource.yaml
```

Commit message:

docs(mdx): Migrate files to `.mdx` and add meta title + desc (#3323)
* docs(convert mdx): round 1

* docs(migrate to mdx): concepts

* docs(migrate to mdx): cli section

* docs(migrate to mdx): config section

* docs(migrate to mdx): core section

* docs(migrate to mdx): examples-tutorials section

* docs(migrate to mdx): getting started section

* docs(migrate to mdx): tools and integrations

* docs(migrating to mdx): web ui

* docs(migrate to mdx): fix broken links

docs/docs/core/configuration/analytics.mdx, after:

---
id: analytics
title: Analytics Settings
description: To improve the end user experience and to help determine where to focus team resources to improve the tool, Tracetest collects analytics and telemetry information.
keywords:
  - tracetest
  - trace-based testing
  - observability
  - distributed tracing
  - testing
image: https://res.cloudinary.com/djwdcmwdz/image/upload/v1698686403/docs/Blog_Thumbnail_14_rsvkmo.jpg
---

To improve the end user experience and to help determine where to focus team resources to improve the tool, Tracetest collects analytics and telemetry information from the system.

Participation in this program is optional, and you may opt-out by following the directions below if you'd prefer not to share any information.

The data collected is anonymous and is not traceable to the source. You can learn more about how we treat your data by [reading our privacy statement](https://kubeshop.io/privacy).

## Changing Analytics Settings from the UI

In the Tracetest Web UI, open (1) Settings and select the (2) Analytics tab:

![Analytics Settings](./img/analytics-settings-0.11.3.png)

From this analytics settings page, you can enable or disable the analytics.

## Changing Analytics Settings with the CLI

Or, if you prefer to use the CLI, you can use this file config to disable analytics:

```yaml
type: Config
spec:
  analyticsEnabled: false
```

Proceed to run this command in the terminal and specify the file above.

```bash
tracetest apply config -f my/resource/analytics-resource.yaml
```
