docs/docs/core/configuration/overview.mdx, before:

---
id: overview
title: Configuration
description: Tracetest allows you to quickly build integration and end-to-end tests, powered by your OpenTelemetry traces. Learn how to get started with creating tests once you open Tracetest.
keywords:
  - tracetest
  - trace-based testing
  - observability
  - distributed tracing
  - testing
image: https://res.cloudinary.com/djwdcmwdz/image/upload/v1698686403/docs/Blog_Thumbnail_14_rsvkmo.jpg
---

There are several configuration options with Tracetest Core:

- [Server configuration](./server) to set database connection information needed to connect to required PostgreSQL instance.
- [Provisioning configuration](./provisioning) to 'preload' the Tracetest server with resources when first running the Tracetest server.

## Supported Trace Data Stores

Tracetest is designed to work with different trace data stores. To enable Tracetest to run end-to-end tests against trace data, you need to configure Tracetest to access trace data.

Currently, Tracetest supports the [following data stores](../../configuration/overview).

## Configuring Tracetest Server

Tracetest has a configuration file to contain the minimal information needed to start the Tracetest server. See more at [Tracetest Server Configuration](./server).

You can also provision the server when it first starts, configuring most aspects of your Tracetest server environment. This is useful in a CI/CD environment to preload and configure the server. See more at [Provisioning a Tracetest Server](./provisioning).

Many of the server configuration settings can be set individually in the UI or via the CLI.

See:

- [Trace Polling](../../configuration/trace-polling.md)
- [Test Runner](../../configuration/test-runner.md)
- [Demo Applications](../../configuration/demo.md)
- [Analytics](./analytics.mdx)
- [Telemetry](./telemetry.mdx)

Commit message:

docs(migrate to mdx): core section

docs/docs/core/configuration/overview.mdx, after:

---
id: overview
title: Configuration
description: Tracetest Core configuration options include both Server and Provisioning on startup. This includes trace data stores as well.
keywords:
  - tracetest
  - trace-based testing
  - observability
  - distributed tracing
  - testing
image: https://res.cloudinary.com/djwdcmwdz/image/upload/v1698686403/docs/Blog_Thumbnail_14_rsvkmo.jpg
---

There are several configuration options with Tracetest Core:

- [Server configuration](/core/configuration/server) to set database connection information needed to connect to required PostgreSQL instance.
- [Provisioning configuration](/core/configuration/provisioning) to 'preload' the Tracetest server with resources when first running the Tracetest server.

## Supported Trace Data Stores

Tracetest is designed to work with different trace data stores. To enable Tracetest to run end-to-end tests against trace data, you need to configure Tracetest to access trace data.

Currently, Tracetest supports the [following data stores](/configuration/overview).

## Configuring Tracetest Server

Tracetest has a configuration file to contain the minimal information needed to start the Tracetest server. See more at [Tracetest Server Configuration](/core/configuration/server).

You can also provision the server when it first starts, configuring most aspects of your Tracetest server environment. This is useful in a CI/CD environment to preload and configure the server. See more at [Provisioning a Tracetest Server](/core/configuration/provisioning).

Many of the server configuration settings can be set individually in the UI or via the CLI.

See:

- [Trace Polling](/configuration/trace-polling)
- [Test Runner](/configuration/test-runner)
- [Demo Applications](/configuration/demo)
- [Analytics](/core/configuration/analytics)
- [Telemetry](/core/configuration/telemetry)
