docs/docs/core/configuration/upgrade.mdx, before:

---
id: upgrade
title: Upgrade Tracetest Version
description: Tracetest allows you to quickly build integration and end-to-end tests, powered by your OpenTelemetry traces. Learn how to get started with creating tests once you open Tracetest.
keywords:
  - tracetest
  - trace-based testing
  - observability
  - distributed tracing
  - testing
image: https://res.cloudinary.com/djwdcmwdz/image/upload/v1689693872/docs/Blog_Thumbnail_28_ugy2yy.png
---

This page explains how to upgrade the version of your Tracetest Server and CLI.

If you've ever seen this error, you've come to the right page:

```text
✖️ Error: Version Mismatch
The CLI version and the server version are not compatible. To fix this, you'll need to make sure that both your CLI and server are using compatible versions.
We recommend upgrading both of them to the latest available version. Check out our documentation https://docs.tracetest.io/configuration/upgrade for simple instructions on how to upgrade.
Thank you for using Tracetest! We apologize for any inconvenience caused.
```

This means your Tracetest CLI and Server versions must be the same.

```sh
tracetest version
```

```text title="Expected output"
CLI: v0.11.9
Server: v0.11.9
✔️ Version match
```

## Upgrade Tracetest CLI Version

### Linux/MacOS

Run the Tracetest CLI install script to upgrade to the latest version of the CLI:

```sh
curl -L https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeshop/tracetest/main/install-cli.sh | bash
```

### Homebrew

```sh
brew upgrade
brew update
brew install kubeshop/tracetest/tracetest
```

### APT

```sh
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install tracetest
```

### YUM

```sh
sudo yum update
sudo yum install tracetest --refresh
```

### Windows

```sh
choco source add --name=kubeshop_repo --source=https://chocolatey.kubeshop.io/chocolatey ; choco upgrade tracetest
```

## Upgrade Tracetest Server Version

Make sure to match the CLI version you have installed to the Server version.

```sh
kubeshop/tracetest:vX.X.X
```

If you are using version `v0.11.9` of the CLI, make sure to use the same version of the server.

```yaml
image: kubeshop/tracetest:v0.11.9
```

Commit message:

docs(mdx): Migrate files to `.mdx` and add meta title + desc (#3323)
* docs(convert mdx): round 1

* docs(migrate to mdx): concepts

* docs(migrate to mdx): cli section

* docs(migrate to mdx): config section

* docs(migrate to mdx): core section

* docs(migrate to mdx): examples-tutorials section

* docs(migrate to mdx): getting started section

* docs(migrate to mdx): tools and integrations

* docs(migrating to mdx): web ui

* docs(migrate to mdx): fix broken links

docs/docs/core/configuration/upgrade.mdx, after:

---
id: upgrade
title: Upgrade Tracetest Version
description: This page explains how to upgrade the version of your Tracetest Core Server and CLI if their version are incompatible.
keywords:
  - tracetest
  - trace-based testing
  - observability
  - distributed tracing
  - testing
image: https://res.cloudinary.com/djwdcmwdz/image/upload/v1698686403/docs/Blog_Thumbnail_14_rsvkmo.jpg
---

This page explains how to upgrade the version of your Tracetest Server and CLI.

If you've ever seen this error, you've come to the right page:

```text
✖️ Error: Version Mismatch
The CLI version and the server version are not compatible. To fix this, you'll need to make sure that both your CLI and server are using compatible versions.
We recommend upgrading both of them to the latest available version. Check out our documentation https://docs.tracetest.io/configuration/upgrade for simple instructions on how to upgrade.
Thank you for using Tracetest! We apologize for any inconvenience caused.
```

This means your Tracetest CLI and Server versions must be the same.

```sh
tracetest version
```

```text title="Expected output"
CLI: v0.11.9
Server: v0.11.9
✔️ Version match
```

## Upgrade Tracetest CLI Version

### Linux/MacOS

Run the Tracetest CLI install script to upgrade to the latest version of the CLI:

```sh
curl -L https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeshop/tracetest/main/install-cli.sh | bash
```

### Homebrew

```sh
brew upgrade
brew update
brew install kubeshop/tracetest/tracetest
```

### APT

```sh
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install tracetest
```

### YUM

```sh
sudo yum update
sudo yum install tracetest --refresh
```

### Windows

```sh
choco source add --name=kubeshop_repo --source=https://chocolatey.kubeshop.io/chocolatey ; choco upgrade tracetest
```

## Upgrade Tracetest Server Version

Make sure to match the CLI version you have installed to the Server version.

```sh
kubeshop/tracetest:vX.X.X
```

If you are using version `v0.11.9` of the CLI, make sure to use the same version of the server.

```yaml
image: kubeshop/tracetest:v0.11.9
```
