docs/docs/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-without-a-trace-data-store.md, before:

# Running Tracetest without a Trace Data Store

:::note
[Check out the source code on GitHub here.](https://github.com/kubeshop/tracetest/tree/main/examples/quick-start-nodejs) 
:::

[Tracetest](https://tracetest.io/) is a testing tool based on [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/) that allows you to test your distributed application. It allows you to use your telemetry data generated by the OpenTelemetry tools to check and assert if your application has the desired behavior defined by your test definitions.

## Sample Node.js app with OpenTelemetry Collector and Tracetest

This is a simple quick start on how to configure a Node.js app to use OpenTelemetry instrumentation with traces, and Tracetest for enhancing your e2e and integration tests with trace-based testing.

## Prerequisites

You will need [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) installed on your machine to run this quick start app!

## Project structure

The project is built with Docker Compose. It contains two distinct `docker-compose.yaml` files.

### 1. Node.js app
The `docker-compose.yaml` file and `Dockerfile` in the root directory are for the Node.js app.

### 2. Tracetest
The `docker-compose.yaml` file, `collector.config.yaml`, and `tracetest.config.yaml` in the `tracetest` directory are for the setting up Tracetest and the OpenTelemetry Collector.

The `tracetest` directory is self-contained and will run all the prerequisites for enabling OpenTelemetry traces and trace-based testing with Tracetest.

### Docker Compose Network
All `services` in the `docker-compose.yaml` are on the same network and will be reachable by hostname from within other services. E.g. `tracetest:21321` in the `collector.config.yaml` will map to the `tracetest` service, where the port `21321` is the port where Tracetest accepts traces.

## Node.js app

The Node.js app is a simple Express app, contained in the `app.js` file.

The OpenTelemetry tracing is contained in the `tracing.otel.grpc.js` or `tracing.otel.http.js` files, respectively. 
Traces will be sent to the OpenTelemetry Collector.

Here's the content of the `tracing.otel.grpc.js` file:

```js
const opentelemetry = require('@opentelemetry/sdk-node')
const { getNodeAutoInstrumentations } = require('@opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node')
const { OTLPTraceExporter } = require('@opentelemetry/exporter-trace-otlp-grpc');

const sdk = new opentelemetry.NodeSDK({
  traceExporter: new OTLPTraceExporter({ url: 'http://otel-collector:4317' }),
  instrumentations: [getNodeAutoInstrumentations()],
})
sdk.start()
```

Depending on which of these you choose, traces will be sent to either the `grpc` or `http` endpoint.

The hostnames and ports for these are:

- GRPC: `http://otel-collector:4317`
- HTTP: `http://otel-collector:4318/v1/traces`

Enabling the tracer is done by preloading the trace file.

```bash
node -r ./tracing.otel.grpc.js app.js
```

In the `package.json` you will see two npm script for running the respective tracers alongside the `app.js`.

```json
"scripts": {
  "with-grpc-tracer":"node -r ./tracing.otel.grpc.js app.js",
  "with-http-tracer":"node -r ./tracing.otel.http.js app.js"
},
```

To start the server you run this command.

```bash
npm run with-grpc-tracer
# or
npm run with-http-tracer
```

As you can see the `Dockerfile` uses the command above.

```Dockerfile
FROM node:slim
WORKDIR /usr/src/app
COPY package*.json ./
RUN npm install
COPY . .
EXPOSE 8080
CMD [ "npm", "run", "with-grpc-tracer" ]
```

And, the `docker-compose.yaml` contains just one service for the Node.js app.

```yaml
version: '3'
services:
  app:
    image: quick-start-nodejs
    build: .
    ports:
      - "8080:8080"
```

To start it, run this command:

```bash
docker compose build # optional if you haven't already built the image
docker compose up
```

This will start the Node.js app. But, you're not sending the traces anywhere.

Let's fix this by configuring Tracetest and OpenTelemetry Collector.

## Tracetest

The `docker-compose.yaml` in the `tracetest` directory is configured with three services.

- **Postgres** - Postgres is a prerequisite for Tracetest to work. It stores trace data when running the trace-based tests.
- [**OpenTelemetry Collector**](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/) - A vendor-agnostic implementation of how to receive, process and export telemetry data.
- [**Tracetest**](https://tracetest.io/) - Trace-based testing that generates end-to-end tests automatically from traces.

```yaml
version: '3'
services:

  tracetest:
    image: kubeshop/tracetest
    volumes:
      - ./tracetest/tracetest.config.yaml:/app/config.yaml
    ports:
      - 11633:11633
    depends_on:
      postgres:
        condition: service_healthy
      otel-collector:
        condition: service_started
    healthcheck:
      test: ["CMD", "wget", "--spider", "localhost:11633"]
      interval: 1s
      timeout: 3s
      retries: 60

  postgres:
    image: postgres:14
    environment:
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: postgres
      POSTGRES_USER: postgres
    healthcheck:
      test: pg_isready -U "$$POSTGRES_USER" -d "$$POSTGRES_DB"
      interval: 1s
      timeout: 5s
      retries: 60

  otel-collector:
    image: otel/opentelemetry-collector-contrib:0.59.0
    command:
      - "--config"
      - "/otel-local-config.yaml"
    volumes:
      - ./tracetest/collector.config.yaml:/otel-local-config.yaml

```

Tracetest depends on both Postgres and the OpenTelemetry Collector. Both Tracetest and the OpenTelemetry Collector require config files to be loaded via a volume. The volumes are mapped from the root directory into the `tracetest` directory and the respective config files.

**Why?** To start both the Node.js app and Tracetest we will run this command:

```bash
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yaml -f tracetest/docker-compose.yaml up # add --build if the images are not built already
```

The `tracetest.config.yaml` file contains the basic setup of connecting Tracetest to the Postgres instance, and defining the trace data store and exporter. The data store is set to OTLP meaning the traces will be stored in Tracetest itself. The exporter is set to the OpenTelemetry Collector.

```yaml
postgres:
  host: postgres
  user: postgres
  password: postgres
  port: 5432
  dbname: postgres
  params: sslmode=disable

telemetry:
  exporters:
    collector:
      serviceName: tracetest
      sampling: 100 # 100%
      exporter:
        type: collector
        collector:
          endpoint: otel-collector:4317

server:
  telemetry:
    exporter: collector
    applicationExporter: collector

```

But how are traces sent to Tracetest?

The `collector.config.yaml` explains that. It receives traces via either `grpc` or `http`. Then, exports them to Tracetest's otlp endpoint `tracetest:21321`.

```yaml
receivers:
  otlp:
    protocols:
      grpc:
      http:

processors:
  batch:
    timeout: 100ms

exporters:
  logging:
    loglevel: debug
  otlp/1:
    endpoint: tracetest:21321 # Send traces to Tracetest. Read more in docs here. (TODO ADD LINK)
    tls:
      insecure: true

service:
  pipelines:
    traces/1:
      receivers: [otlp]
      processors: [batch]
      exporters: [otlp/1]

```

**Important!** Take a closer look at the sampling configs in both the `collector.config.yaml` and `tracetest.config.yaml`. They both set sampling to 100%. This is crucial when running trace-based e2e and integration tests.

## Run both the Node.js app and Tracetest

To start both the Node.js app and Tracetest we will run this command:

```bash
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yaml -f tracetest/docker-compose.yaml up # add --build if the images are not built already
```

This will start your Tracetest instance on `http://localhost:11633/`. Go ahead and open it up.

Start creating tests! Make sure to use the `http://app:8080/` url in your test creation, because your Node.js app and Tracetest are in the same network.

## Learn more

Feel free to check out our [examples in GitHub](https://github.com/kubeshop/tracetest/tree/main/examples), and join our [Discord Community](https://discord.gg/8MtcMrQNbX) for more info!

Commit message:

docs(recipes): Update configs to latest version (#2213)
* docs(recipes): update tracetest without data store

* docs(recipes): update jaeger

* docs(recipes): update opensearch

* docs(recipes): update opensearch

* docs(recipes): update tempo

* docs(recipes): update lightstep

* docs(recipes): update new relic

* docs(recipes): Update elastic

* docs(recipes): update xray pokeshop

* docs(recipe): update datadog

docs/docs/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-without-a-trace-data-store.md, after:

# Running Tracetest without a Trace Data Store

:::note
[Check out the source code on GitHub here.](https://github.com/kubeshop/tracetest/tree/main/examples/quick-start-nodejs) 
:::

[Tracetest](https://tracetest.io/) is a testing tool based on [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/) that allows you to test your distributed application. It allows you to use your telemetry data generated by the OpenTelemetry tools to check and assert if your application has the desired behavior defined by your test definitions.

## Sample Node.js app with OpenTelemetry Collector and Tracetest

This is a simple quick start on how to configure a Node.js app to use OpenTelemetry instrumentation with traces, and Tracetest for enhancing your e2e and integration tests with trace-based testing.

## Prerequisites

You will need [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) installed on your machine to run this quick start app!

## Project structure

The project is built with Docker Compose. It contains two distinct `docker-compose.yaml` files.

### 1. Node.js app
The `docker-compose.yaml` file and `Dockerfile` in the root directory are for the Node.js app.

### 2. Tracetest
The `docker-compose.yaml` file, `collector.config.yaml`, `tracetest-provision.yaml`, and `tracetest.config.yaml` in the `tracetest` directory are for the setting up Tracetest and the OpenTelemetry Collector.

The `tracetest` directory is self-contained and will run all the prerequisites for enabling OpenTelemetry traces and trace-based testing with Tracetest.

### Docker Compose Network
All `services` in the `docker-compose.yaml` are on the same network and will be reachable by hostname from within other services. E.g. `tracetest:21321` in the `collector.config.yaml` will map to the `tracetest` service, where the port `21321` is the port where Tracetest accepts traces.

## Node.js app

The Node.js app is a simple Express app, contained in the `app.js` file.

The OpenTelemetry tracing is contained in the `tracing.otel.grpc.js` or `tracing.otel.http.js` files, respectively.
Traces will be sent to the OpenTelemetry Collector.

Here's the content of the `tracing.otel.grpc.js` file:

```js
const opentelemetry = require('@opentelemetry/sdk-node')
const { getNodeAutoInstrumentations } = require('@opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node')
const { OTLPTraceExporter } = require('@opentelemetry/exporter-trace-otlp-grpc');

const sdk = new opentelemetry.NodeSDK({
  traceExporter: new OTLPTraceExporter({ url: 'http://otel-collector:4317' }),
  instrumentations: [getNodeAutoInstrumentations()],
})
sdk.start()
```

Depending on which of these you choose, traces will be sent to either the `grpc` or `http` endpoint.

The hostnames and ports for these are:

- GRPC: `http://otel-collector:4317`
- HTTP: `http://otel-collector:4318/v1/traces`

Enabling the tracer is done by preloading the trace file.

```bash
node -r ./tracing.otel.grpc.js app.js
```

In the `package.json` you will see two npm script for running the respective tracers alongside the `app.js`.

```json
"scripts": {
  "with-grpc-tracer":"node -r ./tracing.otel.grpc.js app.js",
  "with-http-tracer":"node -r ./tracing.otel.http.js app.js"
},
```

To start the server you run this command.

```bash
npm run with-grpc-tracer
# or
npm run with-http-tracer
```

As you can see the `Dockerfile` uses the command above.

```Dockerfile
FROM node:slim
WORKDIR /usr/src/app
COPY package*.json ./
RUN npm install
COPY . .
EXPOSE 8080
CMD [ "npm", "run", "with-grpc-tracer" ]
```

And, the `docker-compose.yaml` contains just one service for the Node.js app.

```yaml
version: '3'
services:
  app:
    image: quick-start-nodejs
    build: .
    ports:
      - "8080:8080"
```

To start it, run this command:

```bash
docker compose build # optional if you haven't already built the image
docker compose up
```

This will start the Node.js app. But, you're not sending the traces anywhere.

Let's fix this by configuring Tracetest and OpenTelemetry Collector.

## Tracetest

The `docker-compose.yaml` in the `tracetest` directory is configured with three services.

- **Postgres** - Postgres is a prerequisite for Tracetest to work. It stores trace data when running the trace-based tests.
- [**OpenTelemetry Collector**](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/) - A vendor-agnostic implementation of how to receive, process and export telemetry data.
- [**Tracetest**](https://tracetest.io/) - Trace-based testing that generates end-to-end tests automatically from traces.

```yaml
version: "3"
services:
  tracetest:
    image: kubeshop/tracetest:latest
    platform: linux/amd64
    volumes:
      - type: bind
        source: ./tracetest/tracetest-config.yaml
        target: /app/tracetest.yaml
      - type: bind
        source: ./tracetest/tracetest-provision.yaml
        target: /app/provisioning.yaml
    ports:
      - 11633:11633
    command: --provisioning-file /app/provisioning.yaml
    depends_on:
      postgres:
        condition: service_healthy
      otel-collector:
        condition: service_started
    healthcheck:
      test: ["CMD", "wget", "--spider", "localhost:11633"]
      interval: 1s
      timeout: 3s
      retries: 60
    environment:
      TRACETEST_DEV: ${TRACETEST_DEV}

  postgres:
    image: postgres:14
    environment:
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: postgres
      POSTGRES_USER: postgres
    healthcheck:
      test: pg_isready -U "$$POSTGRES_USER" -d "$$POSTGRES_DB"
      interval: 1s
      timeout: 5s
      retries: 60

  otel-collector:
    image: otel/opentelemetry-collector-contrib:0.59.0
    command:
      - "--config"
      - "/otel-local-config.yaml"
    volumes:
      - ./tracetest/collector.config.yaml:/otel-local-config.yaml

```

Tracetest depends on both Postgres and the OpenTelemetry Collector. Both Tracetest and the OpenTelemetry Collector require config files to be loaded via a volume. The volumes are mapped from the root directory into the `tracetest` directory and the respective config files.

**Why?** To start both the Node.js app and Tracetest we will run this command:

```bash
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yaml -f tracetest/docker-compose.yaml up # add --build if the images are not built already
```

The `tracetest-config.yaml` file contains the basic setup of connecting Tracetest to the Postgres instance.

```yaml
postgres:
  host: postgres
  user: postgres
  password: postgres
  port: 5432
  dbname: postgres
  params: sslmode=disable

```

The `tracetest-provision.yaml` file provisions the trace data store and polling to store in the Postgres database. The data store is set to OTLP meaning the traces will be stored in Tracetest itself.

But how are traces sent to Tracetest?

The `collector.config.yaml` explains that. It receives traces via either `grpc` or `http`. Then, exports them to Tracetest's otlp endpoint `tracetest:21321`.

```yaml
receivers:
  otlp:
    protocols:
      grpc:
      http:

processors:
  batch:
    timeout: 100ms

exporters:
  logging:
    loglevel: debug
  otlp/1:
    endpoint: tracetest:21321
    # Send traces to Tracetest.
    # Read more in docs here: https://docs.tracetest.io/configuration/connecting-to-data-stores/opentelemetry-collector
    tls:
      insecure: true

service:
  pipelines:
    traces/1:
      receivers: [otlp]
      processors: [batch]
      exporters: [otlp/1]

```

## Run both the Node.js app and Tracetest

To start both the Node.js app and Tracetest we will run this command:

```bash
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yaml -f tracetest/docker-compose.yaml up # add --build if the images are not built already
```

This will start your Tracetest instance on `http://localhost:11633/`. Go ahead and open it up.

Start creating tests! Make sure to use the `http://app:8080/` url in your test creation, because your Node.js app and Tracetest are in the same network.

## Learn more

Feel free to check out our [examples in GitHub](https://github.com/kubeshop/tracetest/tree/main/examples), and join our [Discord Community](https://discord.gg/8MtcMrQNbX) for more info!
