docs/docs/configuration/agent.mdx, before:

---
id: agent
title: Configuring the Tracetest Agent
description: Tracetest allows you to quickly build integration and end-to-end tests, powered by your OpenTelemetry traces.
keywords:
  - tracetest
  - trace-based testing
  - observability
  - distributed tracing
  - testing
image: https://res.cloudinary.com/djwdcmwdz/image/upload/v1689693872/docs/Blog_Thumbnail_28_ugy2yy.png
---

Tracetest Agent is a lightweight, dependency-free, agent that runs locally in your development environment, or as a Docker container in your Cloud Native infrastructure.

Once started, Tracetest Agent exposes OTLP ports `4317` and `4318` to ingest traces via gRCP and HTTP. Tracetest Agent connects to Tracetest via an API Key. 

Unlike with Tracetest Core, you are not required to run a dedicated Tracetest Server. Running Tracetest Agent and using Tracetest as the remote server requires no configuration or infrastructure management.

[Start Tracetest Agent](../getting-started/installation.mdx) in your environment to get started.

Or, [sign in to Tracetest](https://app.tracetest.io/) and follow the instructions on the Agent Settings page.

![](https://res.cloudinary.com/djwdcmwdz/image/upload/v1696941536/docs/app.tracetest.io_organizations_ttorg_e66318ba6544b856_environments_ttenv_0e807879e2e38d28_settings_j4zt1b.png)

Commit message:

docs(agent): add more explanations about tracetest agent (#3271)
* docs(agent): add more explanations about tracetest agent

* Update docs/docs/concepts/agent.mdx

Co-authored-by: Julianne Fermi <julianne@kubeshop.io>

* Update docs/docs/concepts/agent.mdx

Co-authored-by: Julianne Fermi <julianne@kubeshop.io>

* Update docs/docs/configuration/agent.mdx

Co-authored-by: Julianne Fermi <julianne@kubeshop.io>

* docs(agent): added another bullet

---------

Co-authored-by: Julianne Fermi <julianne@kubeshop.io>

docs/docs/configuration/agent.mdx, after:

---
id: agent
title: Configuring the Tracetest Agent
description: Tracetest allows you to quickly build integration and end-to-end tests, powered by your OpenTelemetry traces.
keywords:
  - tracetest
  - trace-based testing
  - observability
  - distributed tracing
  - testing
image: https://res.cloudinary.com/djwdcmwdz/image/upload/v1689693872/docs/Blog_Thumbnail_28_ugy2yy.png
---

Tracetest Agent is a lightweight, dependency-free, agent that runs locally in your development environment, or as a Docker container in your Cloud Native infrastructure.

## Start Tracetest Agent

Tracetest Agent connects to Tracetest via an API Key.

[Start Tracetest Agent](../getting-started/installation.mdx) in your environment to begin testing!

Or, [sign in to Tracetest](https://app.tracetest.io/) and follow the instructions on the `Settings > Agent` page.

![](https://res.cloudinary.com/djwdcmwdz/image/upload/v1696941536/docs/app.tracetest.io_organizations_ttorg_e66318ba6544b856_environments_ttenv_0e807879e2e38d28_settings_j4zt1b.png)

## Configure Tracetest Agent

Once started, Tracetest Agent exposes OTLP ports `4317` and `4318` to ingest traces via `gRPC` and `HTTP` and is responsible for running tests. Read the detailed concepts [here](../concepts/agent).

:::note
Unlike with [Tracetest Core](/core/getting-started/overview.mdx), you are not required to run a dedicated [Tracetest Server](/core/configuration/server.mdx). Running Tracetest Agent and using Tracetest as the remote server requires no configuration or infrastructure management.
:::
