docs/docs/configuration/tracetest-analyzer.md, before:

# Tracetest Analyzer Settings

Tracetest Analyzer is provided in the Tracetest application to aid in the analysis of traces and easily pinpoint issues to speed up resolution.

:::tip
[Read more about Tracetest Analyzer concepts here.](../analyzer/concepts.md)
:::

## Create a Test

For this example, we will use the Pokemon List test provided in the Tracetest Pokeshop demo.

Start Tracetest, click the **Create** button and select **Create New Test** in the drop down:

![Create a Test Button](../img/analyzer-create-test.png)

Select the **HTTP Request** trigger and click **Next**:

![Select HTTP Trigger](../img/analyzer-create-new-http-request.png)

Select **Pokemon List** and click **Next**:

![Select Pokeshop List](../img/analyzer-pokeshop-list.png)

![Select Pokeshop List Next](../img/analyzer-pokeshop-list-next.png)

Leave the default values and click **Create and Run**:

![Select Pokeshop Create Run ](../img/analyzer-pokeshop-list-create-run.png)

## View the Trace Analyzer Results

The Tracetest Analyzer results help teams improve their instrumentation data, find potential problems and provide tips to fix the problems.

![Analyzer Results](../img/analyzer-results.png)

Click the arrow next to any category to see suggestions for trace improvements:

![Analyzer Results Expanded](../img/analyzer-expanded.png)

## Disable Tracetest Analyzer

In the Tracetest UI, go to **Settings** and the **Analyzer** tab:

![Analyzer Settings](../img/analyzer-settings.png)

This feature will be available in the CLI very soon. Stay tuned!

Commit message:

Docs: New Version Updates (#3023)
* New Version Updates

Change "Environment" to "Variable Set".
Update trace analyzer docs to include new config. Issue #2990
Update webui/transactions page to include new automate tab. Issue #2992

* Update docs/docs/live-examples/opentelemetry-store/use-cases/user-purchasing-products.md

* Update docs/docs/live-examples/opentelemetry-store/use-cases/user-purchasing-products.md

* Update docs/docs/web-ui/creating-environments.md

docs/docs/configuration/tracetest-analyzer.md, after:

# Tracetest Analyzer Settings

Tracetest Analyzer is provided in the Tracetest application to aid in the analysis of traces and easily pinpoint issues to speed up resolution.

:::tip
[Read more about Tracetest Analyzer concepts here.](../analyzer/concepts.md)
:::

## Create a Test

For this example, we will use the Pokemon List test provided in the Tracetest Pokeshop demo.

Start Tracetest, click the **Create** button and select **Create New Test** in the drop down:

![Create a Test Button](../img/analyzer-create-test.png)

Select the **HTTP Request** trigger and click **Next**:

![Select HTTP Trigger](../img/analyzer-create-new-http-request.png)

Select **Pokemon List** and click **Next**:

![Select Pokeshop List](../img/analyzer-pokeshop-list.png)

![Select Pokeshop List Next](../img/analyzer-pokeshop-list-next.png)

Leave the default values and click **Create and Run**:

![Select Pokeshop Create Run ](../img/analyzer-pokeshop-list-create-run.png)

## View the Trace Analyzer Results

The Tracetest Analyzer results help teams improve their instrumentation data, find potential problems and provide tips to fix the problems.

![Analyzer Results](../img/analyzer-results.png)

Click the arrow next to any category to see suggestions for trace improvements:

![Analyzer Results Expanded](../img/analyzer-expanded.png)

## Disable Tracetest Analyzer

In the Tracetest UI, go to **Settings** and the **Analyzer** tab:

![Analyzer Settings](../img/analyzer-settings.png)

Toggle `Enable Analyzer for All Tests` off to disable the Analyzer.

Here, you can also set the thresholds for `Otel Semantic Conventions`, `Common Problems` and `Security` analyzer settings.

![Analyzer Settings 2](../img/analyzer-settings-2.png)

## Tracetest Analyzer in the CLI

You can use Tracetest Analyzer in the CLI to analyze per individual test. Visit the [Creating Transactions](/docs/docs/web-ui/creating-transactions.md) page for details.
