# Defining Tests as Text Files

One important aspect of testing your code is the ability to quickly implement changes while not breaking your application. If you change your application, it is important that you are able to update your tests and run them against your new implementation as soon as possible for a timely development feedback loop.

As Tracetest is mainly a visual tool, this might make it difficult to update tests in an auditable way and execute those changes only when we are sure the application has being deployed with the new changes. With that in mind, we built a new way for you to define your tests: using a YAML test definition!

## Motivation

Imagine that you were assigned a ticket to improve your application database usage. You notice that every time a specific endpoint is called, your application executes `N+1` select statements on the database instead of only one statement. You probably already have a test in place to ensure the correct functionality of that endpoint: it inserts the necessary information into the database, calls that specific endpoint using our tool and ensures you get the expected results using the trace generated by your application. It works fine, but there is a problem. That test is managed by Tracetest on its server and the test cannot be changed until the new patch is deployed. Otherwise, if the test is run using a non-patched version of the application, the test would fail.

To solve that, the best approach would be to enable developers to define their tests as text files and allow them to run those tests using a CLI, so you can integrate the execution of those tests to your existing CI pipeline. There are many benefits of this functionality for your tests:
 - Peers can review your tests before merging them to the main branch.
 - Ensure your test works before merging it to the main branch.
 - Have different versions of the same test running in parallel in different branches, so you and your peers can work on the same code modules and update the same test without interfering with each other.

## Definition

The definition can be broken into three parts: `test information`, `triggering transaction`, and `assertions`. Here is a real test we have on Tracetest to test our Pokemon demo api:

```yaml
name: POST import pokemon
trigger:
  type: http
  httpRequest:
    url: http://demo-pokemon-api.demo/pokemon/import
    method: POST
    headers:
    - key: Content-Type
      value: application/json
    body: '{ "id": 52 }'
testDefinition:
- selector: span[name = "POST /pokemon/import"]
  assertions:
  - tracetest.span.duration <= 500ms
  - http.status_code = 200
- selector: span[name = "send message to queue"]
  assertions:
  - messaging.message.payload contains 52
- selector: span[name = "consume message from queue"]:last
  assertions:
  - messaging.message.payload contains 52
- selector: span[name = "consume message from queue"]:last span[name = "import pokemon
    from pokeapi"]
  assertions:
  - http.status_code = 200
- selector: span[name = "consume message from queue"]:last span[name = "save pokemon
    on database"]
  assertions:
  - db.repository.operation = "create"
  - tracetest.span.duration <= 500ms
```

## Test Information
Currently, you can only define the test name.

## Trigger
This section defines how Tracetest will interact with your application: send an HTTP request, a GRPC call, send a message to a message broker, etc. Currently, only HTTP calls are supported, please let us know any other triggering mechanism that you might need to be able to test your application.

The attribute `type` defines which trigger method you are going to use to interact with your application. The rest of the attributes in this section rely on the value you define there.

### HTTP Trigger
When defining a HTTP trigger, you are required to define a `httpRequest` object containing the request Tracetest will send to your system, so here you can define: `url`, `method`, `headers`, `authentication`, and `body`.

> :warning: Note: Some APIs require the `Content-Type` header to respond. If you are not able to trigger your application, check if you are sending this header and if its value is correct.

```yaml
trigger:
  type: http
  httpRequest:
    url: http://demo-pokemon-api.demo/pokemon/import
    method: POST
    headers:
    - key: Content-Type
      value: application/json
    body: '{ "id": 52 }'
```

#### Authentication
Currently, we support three authentication methods for HTTP requests: `basic authentication`, `api key`, and `bearer token`. Here is one example of each authentication method:

**Basic Authentication**
```yaml
trigger:
    type: http
    httpRequest:
        url: http://my-api.com
        method: GET
        authentication:
            type: basic
            basic:
                user: my-username
                password: mypassword
```

**API Key Authentication**
```yaml
trigger:
    type: http
    httpRequest:
        url: http://my-api.com
        method: GET
        authentication:
            type: apiKey
            apiKey:
                key: X-Key
                value: my-key
                in: header # Either "header" or "query"
```

**Bearer Token authentication**
```yaml
trigger:
    type: http
    httpRequest:
        url: http://my-api.com
        method: GET
        authentication:
            type: bearer
            bearer:
                token: my-token
```

#### Body

Currently, Testkube supports `raw` body types. That basically enables you to send text formats over HTTP, for example: JSON.

```yaml
trigger:
    type: http
    httpRequest:
        url: http://my-api.com
        method: POST
        body: '{"name": "my Json Object"}'
```

### Assertions
Assertions are as important as how you trigger your test. Without them, your test is just a fancy way of executing a request using a CLI command. In this section, we will discuss how you can declare your assertions in your definition file.

Before we start, there are two concepts that you must understand to write your tests: [selectors](https://kubeshop.github.io/tracetest/advanced-selectors/), and assertions. Selectors are queries that are executed against your trace tree and select a set of spans based on some attributes. They are responsible for defining which spans will be tested against your assertions. Assertions are tests against a specific span based on its attributes. A practical example might be useful:

Imagine you have to ensure that all your `database select statements` take `less than 500ms`, to write a test for that you must:

1. Select all spans in your trace related to `select statements`.
2. Check if all those spans lasted `less than 500ms`.

For the first task, we use a selector: `span[db.statement contains "SELECT"]`. While the second one is achieved by using an assertion: `tracetest.span.duration < 500`.

To write that in your test definition, you can define the following YAML definition:

```yaml
testDefinition:
    - selector: span[db.statement contains "SELECT"]
      assertions:
        - tracetest.span.duration < 500
```

As you probably noticed in the test definition structure, you can have multiple assertions for the same selector. This is useful to group related validations. For example, ensuring that all your HTTP calls are successful and take less than 1000ms:

```yaml
testDefinition:
    - selector: span[tracetest.span.type="http"]
      assertions:
        - http.status_code >= 200
        - http.status_code < 300
        - tracetest.span.duration < 1000
```

For more information about selectors or assertions, take a look at the documentation for those topics.
