docs/docs/core/deployment/kubernetes.mdx, before:

# Kubernetes Deployment

<!-- Docusaurus imports start -->

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<!-- Docusaurus imports end -->

This guide walks you through deploying Tracetest with Kubernetes.

:::note
This is an example of a production-ready deployment, but real-world deployments can vary significantly depending on desired performance and scale.
This setup is ideal for CI/CD environments and QA teams working in shared environments. You can use a remote or local ([minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/), [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/), [k3d](https://k3d.io/), etc) cluster.
:::

You have two options to install Tracetest on Kubernetes:

- Using the [Tracetest CLI](../getting-started/installation) to guide your installation
- Using the official [Helm chart](https://github.com/kubeshop/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/tracetest)

<Tabs groupId="kubernetes-installation">
  <TabItem value="cli" label="Tracetest CLI" default>

First, install Tracetest CLI following the instructions on [Getting Started](../getting-started/installation#install-the-tracetest-cli).

After installing the CLI, run:

```bash
tracetest server install
```

```bash title="Expected output"
How do you want to run TraceTest? [type to search]:
  Using Docker Compose
> Using Kubernetes
```

<!-- ![Installer using docker compose](../img/installer/1_docker-compose_0.7.0.png) -->

Select `Using Kubernetes` and follow the instructions.

**Tools required (installed if missing)**:
- kubectl
- Helm

**Optionals**:
- [PokeShop demo app](https://github.com/kubeshop/pokeshop/). A sample microservice app to test your Tracetest installation.
- [OpenTelemetry Collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/). A trace collector, that receives telemetry of other applications and sent it to Tracetest.

**Result**:
- `tracetest` Helm chart deployed in the `tracetest` (configurable) namespace.
- [OpenTelemetry Collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/) deployed in the `tracetest` (configurable) namespace, if selected.
- [PokeShop demo app](https://github.com/kubeshop/pokeshop/) deployed in the `demo` namespace, if selected.

**How to start**:

Once installed, you can get started by launching Tracetest:

```sh
kubectl port-forward svc/tracetest 11633
```

Then launch a browser to [http://localhost:11633/](http://localhost:11633/).

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="helm" label="Helm Chart">

First, be sure that you have [Helm](https://helm.sh/) installed in your machine.

The Tracetest Helm charts are located [here](https://github.com/kubeshop/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/tracetest).

You can install them locally on your machine with the command:
```sh
helm repo add kubeshop https://kubeshop.github.io/helm-charts
helm repo update
```

After that, you can install Tracetest with `helm install`:
```sh
helm install tracetest kubeshop/tracetest --namespace=tracetest --create-namespace
```

Or, generate a manifest file and apply it manually in your Kubernetes cluster:
```sh
helm template tracetest kubeshop/tracetest > tracetest-kubernetes-manifests.yaml
kubectl apply -f ./tracetest-kubernetes-manifests.yaml
```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

For more configuration options, visit the [configuration docs](/configuration/overview.mdx).

Commit message:

docs(migrate to mdx): core section

docs/docs/core/deployment/kubernetes.mdx, after:

---
id: kubernetes
title:  Kubernetes Deployment
description: Guides for deploying Tracetest Core in Kubernetes. Tracetest Core allows you to quickly build integration and end-to-end tests, powered by your OpenTelemetry traces.
keywords:
  - tracetest
  - trace-based testing
  - observability
  - distributed tracing
  - testing
image: https://res.cloudinary.com/djwdcmwdz/image/upload/v1698686403/docs/Blog_Thumbnail_14_rsvkmo.jpg
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

This guide walks you through deploying Tracetest Core in Kubernetes.

:::note
This is an example of a production-ready deployment, but real-world deployments can vary significantly depending on desired performance and scale.
This setup is ideal for CI/CD environments and QA teams working in shared environments. You can use a remote or local ([minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/), [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/), [k3d](https://k3d.io/), etc) cluster.
:::

You have two options to install Tracetest Core in Kubernetes:

- Using the [Tracetest CLI](/core/getting-started/installation) to guide your installation
- Using the official [Helm chart](https://github.com/kubeshop/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/tracetest)

<Tabs groupId="kubernetes-installation">
  <TabItem value="cli" label="Tracetest CLI" default>

First, install Tracetest CLI following the instructions on [Getting Started](/core/getting-started/installation#install-the-tracetest-cli).

After installing the CLI, run:

```bash
tracetest server install
```

```bash title="Expected output"
How do you want to run TraceTest? [type to search]:
  Using Docker Compose
> Using Kubernetes
```

Select `Using Kubernetes` and follow the instructions.

**Tools required (installed if missing)**:
- kubectl
- Helm

**Optionals**:
- [PokeShop demo app](https://github.com/kubeshop/pokeshop/). A sample microservice app to test your Tracetest installation.
- [OpenTelemetry Collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/). A trace collector, that receives telemetry of other applications and sent it to Tracetest.

**Result**:
- `tracetest` Helm chart deployed in the `tracetest` (configurable) namespace.
- [OpenTelemetry Collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/) deployed in the `tracetest` (configurable) namespace, if selected.
- [PokeShop demo app](https://github.com/kubeshop/pokeshop/) deployed in the `demo` namespace, if selected.

**How to start**:

Once installed, you can get started by launching Tracetest:

```sh
kubectl port-forward svc/tracetest 11633
```

Then launch a browser to [http://localhost:11633/](http://localhost:11633/).

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="helm" label="Helm Chart">

First, be sure that you have [Helm](https://helm.sh/) installed in your machine.

The Tracetest Helm charts are located [here](https://github.com/kubeshop/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/tracetest).

You can install them locally on your machine with the command:
```sh
helm repo add kubeshop https://kubeshop.github.io/helm-charts
helm repo update
```

After that, you can install Tracetest with `helm install`:
```sh
helm install tracetest kubeshop/tracetest --namespace=tracetest --create-namespace
```

Or, generate a manifest file and apply it manually in your Kubernetes cluster:
```sh
helm template tracetest kubeshop/tracetest > tracetest-kubernetes-manifests.yaml
kubectl apply -f ./tracetest-kubernetes-manifests.yaml
```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

For more configuration options, visit the [configuration docs](/configuration/overview.mdx).
