docs/docs/examples-tutorials/recipes.md, before:

# Recipes

These recipes will show you the best practices for using Tracetest.

## Trace Data Stores

These recipes show integrations with trace data stores and tracing vendors/providers.

### OpenTelemetry Collector

This integration point uses the OpenTelemetry Collector as a router to send trace data to both Tracetest and tracing vendors/providers.

- [Sending traces directly to Tracetest from a Node.js app using OpenTelemetry Collector](./recipes/running-tracetest-without-a-trace-data-store.md)
- [Sending traces with manual instrumentation directly to Tracetest from a Node.js app using OpenTelemetry Collector](./recipes/running-tracetest-without-a-trace-data-store-with-manual-instrumentation.md)
- [Sending traces with manual instrumentation directly to Tracetest from a Python app using OpenTelemetry Collector](./recipes/running-python-app-with-opentelemetry-collector-and-tracetest.md)
- [Sending traces to Lightstep and Tracetest from the OpenTelemetry Demo with OpenTelemetry Collector](./recipes/running-tracetest-with-lightstep.md)
- [Sending traces to New Relic and Tracetest from the OpenTelemetry Demo with OpenTelemetry Collector](./recipes/running-tracetest-with-new-relic.md)
- [Sending traces to Datadog and Tracetest from the OpenTelemetry Demo with OpenTelemetry Collector](./recipes/running-tracetest-with-datadog.md)

### Jaeger

- [Sending traces to Jaeger from a Node.js app and fetching them from Jaeger with Tracetest](./recipes/running-tracetest-with-jaeger.md)
- [Running Tracetest on AWS Fargate with Terraform](./recipes/running-tracetest-with-aws-terraform.md)

### OpenSearch

- [Sending traces to OpenSearch from a Node.js app and fetching them from OpenSearch with Tracetest](./recipes/running-tracetest-with-opensearch.md)

### Elastic

- [Sending traces to Elastic APM from a Node.js app and fetching them from Elasticsearch with Tracetest](./recipes/running-tracetest-with-elasticapm.md)

### Grafana Tempo

- [Sending traces to Tempo from a Node.js app and fetching them from Tempo with Tracetest](./recipes/running-tracetest-with-tempo.md)

### AWS X-Ray

- [Running Tracetest with AWS X-Ray (AWS X-Ray Node.js SDK)](./recipes/running-tracetest-with-aws-x-ray.md)
- [Running Tracetest with AWS X-Ray (AWS X-Ray Node.js SDK & AWS Distro for OpenTelemetry)](./recipes/running-tracetest-with-aws-x-ray-adot.md)
- [Running Tracetest with AWS X-Ray (AWS Distro for OpenTelemetry & Pokeshop API)](./recipes/running-tracetest-with-aws-x-ray-pokeshop.md)
- [Running Tracetest with AWS Step Functions, AWS X-Ray and Terraform](./recipes/running-tracetest-with-step-functions-terraform.md)

## Tools

These recipes show integrations with other tools and vendors.

### Testkube

- [Running Tracetest with Testkube](./recipes/running-tracetest-with-testkube.md)

Stay tuned! More recipes are coming soon. 🚀

Commit message:

feature: adding honeycomb datastore support (#2471)
* feature: adding honeycomb otel collector support

* feature: adding honeycomb otel collector support

* feature: adding honeycomb connection docs

* PR comments

* adding identation

* adding identation

* fixing bash script

docs/docs/examples-tutorials/recipes.md, after:

# Recipes

These recipes will show you the best practices for using Tracetest.

## Trace Data Stores

These recipes show integrations with trace data stores and tracing vendors/providers.

### OpenTelemetry Collector

This integration point uses the OpenTelemetry Collector as a router to send trace data to both Tracetest and tracing vendors/providers.

- [Sending traces directly to Tracetest from a Node.js app using OpenTelemetry Collector](./recipes/running-tracetest-without-a-trace-data-store.md)
- [Sending traces with manual instrumentation directly to Tracetest from a Node.js app using OpenTelemetry Collector](./recipes/running-tracetest-without-a-trace-data-store-with-manual-instrumentation.md)
- [Sending traces with manual instrumentation directly to Tracetest from a Python app using OpenTelemetry Collector](./recipes/running-python-app-with-opentelemetry-collector-and-tracetest.md)
- [Sending traces to Lightstep and Tracetest from the OpenTelemetry Demo with OpenTelemetry Collector](./recipes/running-tracetest-with-lightstep.md)
- [Sending traces to New Relic and Tracetest from the OpenTelemetry Demo with OpenTelemetry Collector](./recipes/running-tracetest-with-new-relic.md)
- [Sending traces to Datadog and Tracetest from the OpenTelemetry Demo with OpenTelemetry Collector](./recipes/running-tracetest-with-datadog.md)
- [Sending traces to Honeycomb and Tracetest from a Node.js app using the OpenTelemetry Collector](./recipes/running-tracetest-with-honeycomb.md)

### Jaeger

- [Sending traces to Jaeger from a Node.js app and fetching them from Jaeger with Tracetest](./recipes/running-tracetest-with-jaeger.md)
- [Running Tracetest on AWS Fargate with Terraform](./recipes/running-tracetest-with-aws-terraform.md)

### OpenSearch

- [Sending traces to OpenSearch from a Node.js app and fetching them from OpenSearch with Tracetest](./recipes/running-tracetest-with-opensearch.md)

### Elastic

- [Sending traces to Elastic APM from a Node.js app and fetching them from Elasticsearch with Tracetest](./recipes/running-tracetest-with-elasticapm.md)

### Grafana Tempo

- [Sending traces to Tempo from a Node.js app and fetching them from Tempo with Tracetest](./recipes/running-tracetest-with-tempo.md)

### AWS X-Ray

- [Running Tracetest with AWS X-Ray (AWS X-Ray Node.js SDK)](./recipes/running-tracetest-with-aws-x-ray.md)
- [Running Tracetest with AWS X-Ray (AWS X-Ray Node.js SDK & AWS Distro for OpenTelemetry)](./recipes/running-tracetest-with-aws-x-ray-adot.md)
- [Running Tracetest with AWS X-Ray (AWS Distro for OpenTelemetry & Pokeshop API)](./recipes/running-tracetest-with-aws-x-ray-pokeshop.md)
- [Running Tracetest with AWS Step Functions, AWS X-Ray and Terraform](./recipes/running-tracetest-with-step-functions-terraform.md)

## Tools

These recipes show integrations with other tools and vendors.

### Testkube

- [Running Tracetest with Testkube](./recipes/running-tracetest-with-testkube.md)

Stay tuned! More recipes are coming soon. 🚀
