docs/docs/examples-tutorials/recipes.mdx, before:

---
id: recipes
title: 🍱 Recipes
description: Here you can find hands-on recipes of popular use-cases to get started with Tracetest.
hide_table_of_contents: false
keywords:
  - tracetest
  - trace-based testing
  - observability
  - distributed tracing
  - testing
image: https://res.cloudinary.com/djwdcmwdz/image/upload/v1698686403/docs/Blog_Thumbnail_14_rsvkmo.jpg
breadcrumb_label: Nothing
---

If you're already building something with Tracetest, explore these Recipes. They're short, self-contained, and runnable solutions to popular use cases.

## Tools & Integrations

These guides show integrations with other tools and vendors.

- [Trace-Based End to End Testing with Cypress and Tracetest](/tools-and-integrations/cypress)
- [Trace-Based End to End Testing with Playwright and Tracetest](/tools-and-integrations/playwright)
- [Running Tracetest with Testkube](/tools-and-integrations/testkube)
- [Performance and Trace-Based Tests with Tracetest and k6](/tools-and-integrations/k6)
- [Running Tracetest Core with k6](/tools-and-integrations/k6-core)
- [Running Tracetest with Keptn](/tools-and-integrations/keptn)

## Streams and Message Queues

These recipes show how to trigger Tracetest test runs with message queues like Kafka.

- [Testing Kafka in a Go API with OpenTelemetry](/examples-tutorials/recipes/testing-kafka-go-api-with-opentelemetry-tracetest)

## Serverless Functions (FaaS)

These recipes show how to run tests against Serverless Functions with Tracetest.

- [Testing Vercel Functions with OpenTelemetry](/examples-tutorials/recipes/testing-vercel-functions-with-opentelemetry-tracetest)
- [Testing Cloudflare Workers with OpenTelemetry](/examples-tutorials/recipes/testing-cloudflare-workers-with-opentelemetry-tracetest)

## Trace Data Stores

These recipes show integrations with trace data stores and tracing vendors/providers.

### OpenTelemetry Collector

This integration point uses the OpenTelemetry Collector as a router to send trace data to Tracetest.

- [Sending traces directly to Tracetest from a Node.js app using OpenTelemetry Collector](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-without-a-trace-data-store)
- [Sending traces with manual instrumentation directly to Tracetest from a Node.js app using OpenTelemetry Collector](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-without-a-trace-data-store-with-manual-instrumentation)
- [Sending traces with manual instrumentation directly to Tracetest from a Python app using OpenTelemetry Collector](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-python-app-with-opentelemetry-collector-and-tracetest)

### OpenTelemetry Collector + Tracing Vendors

This integration point uses the OpenTelemetry Collector as a router to send trace data to both Tracetest and tracing vendors/providers.

- [Sending traces to Lightstep and Tracetest from the OpenTelemetry Demo with OpenTelemetry Collector](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-lightstep)
- [Sending traces to New Relic and Tracetest from the OpenTelemetry Demo with OpenTelemetry Collector](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-new-relic)
- [Sending traces to Datadog and Tracetest from the OpenTelemetry Demo with OpenTelemetry Collector](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-datadog)
- [Sending traces to Honeycomb and Tracetest from a Node.js app using the OpenTelemetry Collector](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-honeycomb)
- [Sending traces to Dynatrace and Tracetest from the OpenTelemetry Demo with OpenTelemetry Collector](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-dynatrace)
- [Sending traces to SigNoz and Tracetest from the Pokeshop API with OpenTelemetry Collector](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-signoz-pokeshop)

### AWS X-Ray

- [Running Tracetest with AWS X-Ray (AWS X-Ray Node.js SDK)](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-aws-x-ray)
- [Running Tracetest with AWS X-Ray (AWS X-Ray Node.js SDK & AWS Distro for OpenTelemetry)](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-aws-x-ray-adot)
- [Running Tracetest with AWS X-Ray (AWS Distro for OpenTelemetry & Pokeshop API)](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-aws-x-ray-pokeshop)
- [Running Tracetest with AWS Step Functions, AWS X-Ray and Terraform](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-step-functions-terraform)

### Azure App Insights

- [Running Tracetest with Azure App Insights (AppInsights Otel Node.js SDK)](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-azure-app-insights)
- [Running Tracetest with Azure App Insights (Otel Node.js SDK & OpenTelemetry Collector)](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-azure-app-insights-collector)
- [Running Tracetest with Azure App Insights (OpenTelemetry Collector & Pokeshop API)](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-azure-app-insights-pokeshop)

### Elastic

- [Sending traces to Elastic APM from a Node.js app and fetching them from Elasticsearch with Tracetest](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-elasticapm)

### OpenSearch

- [Sending traces to OpenSearch from a Node.js app and fetching them from OpenSearch with Tracetest](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-opensearch)

### Grafana Tempo

- [Sending traces to Tempo from a Node.js app and fetching them from Tempo with Tracetest](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-tempo)

### Jaeger

- [Sending traces to Jaeger from a Node.js app and fetching them from Jaeger with Tracetest](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-jaeger)
- [Running Tracetest on AWS Fargate with Terraform](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-aws-terraform)

### Sumo Logic

- [Sending traces to Sumo Logic from a Node.js app and fetching them from Sumo Logic with Tracetest](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-sumologic)



## CI/CD Automation

These guides show integrations with CI/CD tools.

- [GitHub Actions](/ci-cd-automation/github-actions-pipeline)
- [Testkube](/ci-cd-automation/testkube-pipeline)
- [Tekton](/ci-cd-automation/tekton-pipeline)

Stay tuned! More recipes are coming soon. 🚀

Commit message:

chore(examples): Adding Serverless Example (#3621)
* chore(examples): Adding Serverless Example

* chore(examples): Adding Automated Tracetest Tests

* chore(examples): Adding Automated Tracetest Tests

* chore(examples): adding readme.md

* chore(examples): adding readme.md

* chore(examples): adding recipe

* feat(frontend): Updating prereqs and fomatting

* Update docs/docs/examples-tutorials/recipes/testing-lambda-functions-with-opentelemetry-tracetest.mdx

Co-authored-by: Adnan Rahić <adnan@kubeshop.io>

---------

Co-authored-by: Adnan Rahić <adnan@kubeshop.io>

docs/docs/examples-tutorials/recipes.mdx, after:

---
id: recipes
title: 🍱 Recipes
description: Here you can find hands-on recipes of popular use-cases to get started with Tracetest.
hide_table_of_contents: false
keywords:
  - tracetest
  - trace-based testing
  - observability
  - distributed tracing
  - testing
image: https://res.cloudinary.com/djwdcmwdz/image/upload/v1698686403/docs/Blog_Thumbnail_14_rsvkmo.jpg
breadcrumb_label: Nothing
---

If you're already building something with Tracetest, explore these Recipes. They're short, self-contained, and runnable solutions to popular use cases.

## Tools & Integrations

These guides show integrations with other tools and vendors.

- [Trace-Based End to End Testing with Cypress and Tracetest](/tools-and-integrations/cypress)
- [Trace-Based End to End Testing with Playwright and Tracetest](/tools-and-integrations/playwright)
- [Running Tracetest with Testkube](/tools-and-integrations/testkube)
- [Performance and Trace-Based Tests with Tracetest and k6](/tools-and-integrations/k6)
- [Running Tracetest Core with k6](/tools-and-integrations/k6-core)
- [Running Tracetest with Keptn](/tools-and-integrations/keptn)

## Streams and Message Queues

These recipes show how to trigger Tracetest test runs with message queues like Kafka.

- [Testing Kafka in a Go API with OpenTelemetry](/examples-tutorials/recipes/testing-kafka-go-api-with-opentelemetry-tracetest)

## Serverless Functions (FaaS)

These recipes show how to run tests against Serverless Functions with Tracetest.

- [Testing Vercel Functions with OpenTelemetry](/examples-tutorials/recipes/testing-vercel-functions-with-opentelemetry-tracetest)
- [Testing AWS Lambda Functions (Serverless Framework) with OpenTelemetry and Tracetest](/examples-tutorials/recipes/testing-lambda-functions-with-opentelemetry-tracetest)
- [Testing Cloudflare Workers with OpenTelemetry](/examples-tutorials/recipes/testing-cloudflare-workers-with-opentelemetry-tracetest)

## Trace Data Stores

These recipes show integrations with trace data stores and tracing vendors/providers.

### OpenTelemetry Collector

This integration point uses the OpenTelemetry Collector as a router to send trace data to Tracetest.

- [Sending traces directly to Tracetest from a Node.js app using OpenTelemetry Collector](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-without-a-trace-data-store)
- [Sending traces with manual instrumentation directly to Tracetest from a Node.js app using OpenTelemetry Collector](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-without-a-trace-data-store-with-manual-instrumentation)
- [Sending traces with manual instrumentation directly to Tracetest from a Python app using OpenTelemetry Collector](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-python-app-with-opentelemetry-collector-and-tracetest)

### OpenTelemetry Collector + Tracing Vendors

This integration point uses the OpenTelemetry Collector as a router to send trace data to both Tracetest and tracing vendors/providers.

- [Sending traces to Lightstep and Tracetest from the OpenTelemetry Demo with OpenTelemetry Collector](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-lightstep)
- [Sending traces to New Relic and Tracetest from the OpenTelemetry Demo with OpenTelemetry Collector](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-new-relic)
- [Sending traces to Datadog and Tracetest from the OpenTelemetry Demo with OpenTelemetry Collector](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-datadog)
- [Sending traces to Honeycomb and Tracetest from a Node.js app using the OpenTelemetry Collector](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-honeycomb)
- [Sending traces to Dynatrace and Tracetest from the OpenTelemetry Demo with OpenTelemetry Collector](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-dynatrace)
- [Sending traces to SigNoz and Tracetest from the Pokeshop API with OpenTelemetry Collector](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-signoz-pokeshop)

### AWS X-Ray

- [Running Tracetest with AWS X-Ray (AWS X-Ray Node.js SDK)](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-aws-x-ray)
- [Running Tracetest with AWS X-Ray (AWS X-Ray Node.js SDK & AWS Distro for OpenTelemetry)](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-aws-x-ray-adot)
- [Running Tracetest with AWS X-Ray (AWS Distro for OpenTelemetry & Pokeshop API)](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-aws-x-ray-pokeshop)
- [Running Tracetest with AWS Step Functions, AWS X-Ray and Terraform](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-step-functions-terraform)

### Azure App Insights

- [Running Tracetest with Azure App Insights (AppInsights Otel Node.js SDK)](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-azure-app-insights)
- [Running Tracetest with Azure App Insights (Otel Node.js SDK & OpenTelemetry Collector)](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-azure-app-insights-collector)
- [Running Tracetest with Azure App Insights (OpenTelemetry Collector & Pokeshop API)](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-azure-app-insights-pokeshop)

### Elastic

- [Sending traces to Elastic APM from a Node.js app and fetching them from Elasticsearch with Tracetest](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-elasticapm)

### OpenSearch

- [Sending traces to OpenSearch from a Node.js app and fetching them from OpenSearch with Tracetest](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-opensearch)

### Grafana Tempo

- [Sending traces to Tempo from a Node.js app and fetching them from Tempo with Tracetest](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-tempo)

### Jaeger

- [Sending traces to Jaeger from a Node.js app and fetching them from Jaeger with Tracetest](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-jaeger)
- [Running Tracetest on AWS Fargate with Terraform](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-aws-terraform)

### Sumo Logic

- [Sending traces to Sumo Logic from a Node.js app and fetching them from Sumo Logic with Tracetest](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-sumologic)

## CI/CD Automation

These guides show integrations with CI/CD tools.

- [GitHub Actions](/ci-cd-automation/github-actions-pipeline)
- [Testkube](/ci-cd-automation/testkube-pipeline)
- [Tekton](/ci-cd-automation/tekton-pipeline)

Stay tuned! More recipes are coming soon. 🚀
