docs/docs/examples-tutorials/tutorials.mdx, before:

---
id: tutorials
title: 👨‍💻 Tutorials
description: Here you can find tutorials to help you get started with Tracetest.
hide_table_of_contents: false
keywords:
  - tracetest
  - trace-based testing
  - observability
  - distributed tracing
  - testing
image: https://res.cloudinary.com/djwdcmwdz/image/upload/v1698686403/docs/Blog_Thumbnail_14_rsvkmo.jpg
breadcrumb_label: Nothing
---

Check out the following blog posts with Tracetest-related content.

## Integrations

### Distributed Tracing Vendors

- [Tracetest + Dynatrace: Unified Observability for Testing](https://tracetest.io/blog/tracetest-dynatrace-unified-observability-for-testing)
- [Honeycomb + Tracetest: Observability-driven Development](https://tracetest.io/blog/honeycomb-tracetest-observability-driven-development)
- [Tracetest + Elastic: Trace-based testing meets APM](https://tracetest.io/blog/tracetest-integration-elastic-trace-based-testing-application-performance-monitoring)
- [Monitoring and Testing Cloud Native APIs with Grafana](https://tracetest.io/blog/monitoring-and-testing-cloud-native-apis-with-grafana)
- [Announcing the Tracetest integration with Lightstep](https://tracetest.io/blog/tracetest-integration-with-lightstep)
- [Enabling Tracetest to Work Directly with OpenSearch](https://tracetest.io/blog/tracetest-opensearch-integration)

### Cloud Providers

- [Trace-based testing cloud-native apps with AWS X-Ray and Tracetest](https://tracetest.io/blog/trace-based-testing-cloud-native-apps-with-aws-x-ray-and-tracetest)
- [Announcing the Tracetest Integration with Azure App Insights](https://tracetest.io/blog/announcing-the-tracetest-integration-with-azure-app-insights)
- [Observability and Trace-based Testing in AWS](https://tracetest.io/blog/observability-trace-based-testing-aws-serverless-opensearch-tracetest)

### Tools

- [Synthetic Monitoring with the Tracetest GitHub Action](https://tracetest.io/blog/synthetic-monitoring-with-the-tracetest-github-action)
- [Event-driven Kubernetes testing with Testkube and Tracetest](https://tracetest.io/blog/event-driven-kubernetes-testing-with-testkube-and-tracetest)
- [Announcing the Tracetest integration with Keptn](https://tracetest.io/blog/announcing-the-tracetest-integration-with-keptn-the-control-plane-for-cloud-native-application-life-cycle-orchestration)
- [Tracetest + k6: Deep Load Testing of your Cloud Native System](https://tracetest.io/blog/announcing-the-tracetest-integration-with-k6-deep-load-testing-of-your-cloud-native-system)
- [Integrating Tracetest with GitHub Actions in a CI pipeline](https://tracetest.io/blog/integrating-tracetest-with-github-actions-in-a-ci-pipeline)

## Best Practices

### OpenTelemetry

- [Level Up Node.js E2E + Integration Testing with OpenTelemetry](https://tracetest.io/blog/level-up-node-js-e2e-and-integration-testing-with-opentelemetry)
- [The Power of Traces: Learn by Contributing to OpenTelemetry](https://tracetest.io/blog/the-power-of-traces-learn-by-contributing-to-opentelemetry)
- [Why did OpenTelemetry Ditch Black-box Tests?](https://tracetest.io/blog/why-did-opentelemetry-ditch-black-box-tests)
- [Running Trace-Based Tests on the OpenTelemetry Demo App with Nomad](https://tracetest.io/blog/tracetest-in-action-running-trace-based-tests-on-the-opentelemetry-demo-app-with-nomad)

### Testing Distributed Systems

- [Ad Hoc Testing of Distributed Systems](https://tracetest.io/blog/ad-hoc-testing-of-distributed-systems)
- [Chaining API Tests to Handle Complex Distributed System Testing](https://tracetest.io/blog/chaining-api-tests-to-handle-complex-distributed-system-testing)
- [Integration Tests: Pros and Cons of Doubles vs. Trace-Based Testing](https://tracetest.io/blog/integration-tests-pros-and-cons-of-doubles-vs-trace-based-testing)
- [Detect & Fix Performance Issues Using Tracetest](https://tracetest.io/blog/detect-fix-performance-issues-using-tracetest)
- [Where Does Trace-Based Testing Fit in the Testing Pyramid?](https://thenewstack.io/where-does-trace-based-testing-fit-in-the-testing-pyramid/)

### Testing Event-driven Systems

- [Testing Event-driven Systems with OpenTelemetry](https://tracetest.io/blog/testing-event-driven-systems-with-opentelemetry)

### Observability-driven development

- [Observability-driven development with Go and Tracetest](https://tracetest.io/blog/observability-driven-development-with-go-and-tracetest)
- [The difference between test-driven & observability-driven development](https://tracetest.io/blog/the-difference-between-tdd-and-odd)

### Contributions to the OpenTelemetry Community

- [Trace-based Testing the OpenTelemetry Demo](https://opentelemetry.io/blog/2023/testing-otel-demo/)
- [Creating a Kubernetes Cluster with Runtime Observability](https://opentelemetry.io/blog/2023/k8s-runtime-observability/)
- [Frontend Overhaul of the OpenTelemetry Demo (Go to Next.js)](https://tracetest.io/blog/frontend-overhaul-opentelemetry-demo)
- [Is it Observable? with Henrik Rexed](https://tracetest.io/blog/is-it-observable-with-henrik-rexed)
- [Tracing the History of Distributed Tracing & OpenTelemetry](https://tracetest.io/blog/tracing-the-history-of-distributed-tracing-opentelemetry)

Commit message:

docs(recipe): add vercel (#3549)
* docs(recipe): add vercel

* Update docs/docs/examples-tutorials/recipes/testing-vercel-functions-with-opentelemetry-tracetest.mdx

Co-authored-by: Julianne Fermi <julianne@kubeshop.io>

* Update docs/docs/examples-tutorials/recipes/testing-vercel-functions-with-opentelemetry-tracetest.mdx

Co-authored-by: Julianne Fermi <julianne@kubeshop.io>

---------

Co-authored-by: Julianne Fermi <julianne@kubeshop.io>

docs/docs/examples-tutorials/tutorials.mdx, after:

---
id: tutorials
title: 👨‍💻 Tutorials
description: Here you can find tutorials to help you get started with Tracetest.
hide_table_of_contents: false
keywords:
  - tracetest
  - trace-based testing
  - observability
  - distributed tracing
  - testing
image: https://res.cloudinary.com/djwdcmwdz/image/upload/v1698686403/docs/Blog_Thumbnail_14_rsvkmo.jpg
breadcrumb_label: Nothing
---

Check out the following blog posts with Tracetest-related content.

## Integrations

### Distributed Tracing Vendors

- [Sumo Logic and Tracetest: AI-Driven Observability Meets Testing](https://tracetest.io/blog/sumo-logic-and-tracetest-ai-driven-observability-meets-testing)
- [Tracetest + Dynatrace: Unified Observability for Testing](https://tracetest.io/blog/tracetest-dynatrace-unified-observability-for-testing)
- [Honeycomb + Tracetest: Observability-driven Development](https://tracetest.io/blog/honeycomb-tracetest-observability-driven-development)
- [Tracetest + Elastic: Trace-based testing meets APM](https://tracetest.io/blog/tracetest-integration-elastic-trace-based-testing-application-performance-monitoring)
- [Monitoring and Testing Cloud Native APIs with Grafana](https://tracetest.io/blog/monitoring-and-testing-cloud-native-apis-with-grafana)
- [Announcing the Tracetest integration with Lightstep](https://tracetest.io/blog/tracetest-integration-with-lightstep)
- [Enabling Tracetest to Work Directly with OpenSearch](https://tracetest.io/blog/tracetest-opensearch-integration)

### Cloud Providers

- [Trace-based testing cloud-native apps with AWS X-Ray and Tracetest](https://tracetest.io/blog/trace-based-testing-cloud-native-apps-with-aws-x-ray-and-tracetest)
- [Announcing the Tracetest Integration with Azure App Insights](https://tracetest.io/blog/announcing-the-tracetest-integration-with-azure-app-insights)
- [Observability and Trace-based Testing in AWS](https://tracetest.io/blog/observability-trace-based-testing-aws-serverless-opensearch-tracetest)

### Tools

- [Cloud Native Observability and Cypress: An Unlikely Marriage](https://tracetest.io/blog/cloud-native-observability-and-cypress-an-unlikely-marriage)
- [Load Testing with k6 and Tracetest](https://tracetest.io/blog/load-testing-with-k6-and-tracetest)
- [Synthetic Monitoring with the Tracetest GitHub Action](https://tracetest.io/blog/synthetic-monitoring-with-the-tracetest-github-action)
- [Event-driven Kubernetes testing with Testkube and Tracetest](https://tracetest.io/blog/event-driven-kubernetes-testing-with-testkube-and-tracetest)
- [Announcing the Tracetest integration with Keptn](https://tracetest.io/blog/announcing-the-tracetest-integration-with-keptn-the-control-plane-for-cloud-native-application-life-cycle-orchestration)
- [Tracetest + k6: Deep Load Testing of your Cloud Native System](https://tracetest.io/blog/announcing-the-tracetest-integration-with-k6-deep-load-testing-of-your-cloud-native-system)
- [Integrating Tracetest with GitHub Actions in a CI pipeline](https://tracetest.io/blog/integrating-tracetest-with-github-actions-in-a-ci-pipeline)

## Best Practices

### OpenTelemetry

- [Level Up Node.js E2E + Integration Testing with OpenTelemetry](https://tracetest.io/blog/level-up-node-js-e2e-and-integration-testing-with-opentelemetry)
- [The Power of Traces: Learn by Contributing to OpenTelemetry](https://tracetest.io/blog/the-power-of-traces-learn-by-contributing-to-opentelemetry)
- [Why did OpenTelemetry Ditch Black-box Tests?](https://tracetest.io/blog/why-did-opentelemetry-ditch-black-box-tests)
- [Running Trace-Based Tests on the OpenTelemetry Demo App with Nomad](https://tracetest.io/blog/tracetest-in-action-running-trace-based-tests-on-the-opentelemetry-demo-app-with-nomad)

### Testing Distributed Systems

- [Ad Hoc Testing of Distributed Systems](https://tracetest.io/blog/ad-hoc-testing-of-distributed-systems)
- [Chaining API Tests to Handle Complex Distributed System Testing](https://tracetest.io/blog/chaining-api-tests-to-handle-complex-distributed-system-testing)
- [Integration Tests: Pros and Cons of Doubles vs. Trace-Based Testing](https://tracetest.io/blog/integration-tests-pros-and-cons-of-doubles-vs-trace-based-testing)
- [Detect & Fix Performance Issues Using Tracetest](https://tracetest.io/blog/detect-fix-performance-issues-using-tracetest)
- [Where Does Trace-Based Testing Fit in the Testing Pyramid?](https://thenewstack.io/where-does-trace-based-testing-fit-in-the-testing-pyramid/)

### Testing Event-driven Systems

- [Testing Event-driven Systems with OpenTelemetry](https://tracetest.io/blog/testing-event-driven-systems-with-opentelemetry)

### Testing Serverless Functions (Faas)

- [Integration Testing Vercel Serverless Functions with OpenTelemetry](https://tracetest.io/blog/integration-testing-vercel-serverless-functions-with-opentelemetry)

### Observability-driven development

- [Observability-driven development with Go and Tracetest](https://tracetest.io/blog/observability-driven-development-with-go-and-tracetest)
- [The difference between test-driven & observability-driven development](https://tracetest.io/blog/the-difference-between-tdd-and-odd)

### Contributions to the OpenTelemetry Community

- [Trace-based Testing the OpenTelemetry Demo](https://opentelemetry.io/blog/2023/testing-otel-demo/)
- [Creating a Kubernetes Cluster with Runtime Observability](https://opentelemetry.io/blog/2023/k8s-runtime-observability/)
- [Frontend Overhaul of the OpenTelemetry Demo (Go to Next.js)](https://tracetest.io/blog/frontend-overhaul-opentelemetry-demo)
- [Is it Observable? with Henrik Rexed](https://tracetest.io/blog/is-it-observable-with-henrik-rexed)
- [Tracing the History of Distributed Tracing & OpenTelemetry](https://tracetest.io/blog/tracing-the-history-of-distributed-tracing-opentelemetry)
